---
published: true
---



Digging deeper into bash can be rewarding. Today, and possibly this weekend, I am going to focus on getting bash looking good.

##PS1
In a [previous post](http://moaxcp.github.io/2015/04/15/ps1-in-gentoo.html) I wrote about changing the directory output using \W instead of \w. This helps shorten the prompt when working in deep directories. Today I found [this](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Color_Bash_Prompt) wiki page which shows how to add the output of the previous command to the prompt for debugging.

Every program that completes needs to return a status code. 0 means everything is ok, non-0 means something went wrong. Adding this to PS1 is great for testing commands like `grep -q` before adding it to a script. I setup the output with the green check box for 0 and red x for non-0.

In gentoo, this causes problems. My prompt shows a red and green box instead of the check box and x. Since these are unicode characters and xterm can be built without unicode support, the first thing I checked is the use flags.

    john-gentoo john # emerge -av xterm

     * IMPORTANT: 2 news items need reading for repository 'gentoo'.
     * Use eselect news read to view new items.
     
    These are the packages that would be merged, in order:

    Calculating dependencies... done!
    [ebuild   R    ] x11-terms/xterm-314::gentoo  USE="openpty truetype unicode -Xaw3d -toolbar" 0 KiB

    Total: 1 package (1 reinstall), Size of downloads: 0 KiB

    Would you like to merge these packages? [Yes/No] 
    
This shows that xterm was built with the unicode use flag turned on so the problem is not xterm.

On [this](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/UTF-8) guide I found this:
> It is wise to add unicode to the global USE flags in /etc/portage/make.conf

After following this guidance I did not see a change.

Further in the guide is states that xterm should be started with uxterm to support unicode. Even then I have the same problem. After these changes I am sure either my font does not support these characters or my fonts are not set correctly.

###bin/testps1font.sh

{% highlight bash %}
#!/bin/bash
cd /usr/share/consolefonts
for i in *
do
  setfont
  echo "testing >> $i << font"
  setfont $i
  echo -e "\0342\0234\0227"
  echo -e "\0342\0234\0223"
  read
  clear
done
{% endhighlight %}

This tests each console font by printing out the PS1 characters and waiting for input. I could not find a console font that has a checkmark and x. I am changing the characters to something more useful.

I also want to shorten the computer name so PS1 is not so long. This can be changed in `/etc/conf.d/hostname`. I am changing it to g1.

##consolefont
rc-update add consolefont boot
rc-service consolefont start
I now have consolefont setup. The font can be changed in /etc/conf.d/consolefont to one of the fonts in /usr/share/consolefonts

##Xfonts
I am following [this](http://kev009.com/wp/2009/12/getting-beautiful-fonts-in-gentoo-linux/) guide and restarting. This has setup X with nice fonts but not xterm.

##.Xresources
my .xinitrc file only loads .Xresources not .Xdefaults. It is directly copied from /etc/X11/xinitrc. I basically copied [this](https://wiki.mpich.org/mpich/index.php/Configure_xterm_Fonts_and_Colors_for_Your_Eyeball) and set the faceSize to 8 instead of 11.
