---
title: layman
layout: post
comments: true
---
I'm working on getting [layman](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Layman) setup on my gentoo system so I can connect to other overlays. Currently I have been copying ebuilds from overlays using my browser. This should be avoided unless I need to make changes to the overlay. I would also like to eventually get [my overlay](https://github.com/moaxcp/moaxcp-gentoo-overlay) recognized as a [gentoo overlay](https://overlays.gentoo.org/).

###Use Flags

* git - because I'm using git
* subversion - because people still use it
* sync-plugin-portage - This seems to work with the new portage system. Since I migrated to that system I will probably want to use it.

To install layman:

        $ nano /etc/portage/package.use/layman
        app-portage/layman git subversion sync-plugin-portage
        ctrl+x, y

        $ emerge -a app-portage/layman
        * IMPORTANT: 1 news items need reading for repository 'gentoo'.
        * Use eselect news read to view new items.

        These are the packages that would be merged, in order:

        Calculating dependencies... done!
        [ebuild   R    ] app-portage/layman-2.0.0-r3::gentoo  USE="git subversion -bazaar -cvs -darcs -mercurial {-test}" PYTHON_TARGETS="python2_7 (-pypy)" 0 KiB

        Total: 1 package (1 reinstall), Size of downloads: 0 KiB

        Would you like to merge these packages? [Yes/No] no

As you can see the sync-plugin-portage flag is ignored. This is because I am not getting the latest version of layman from the repo. To fix this add the ~amd64 keyword for the package.

        nano /etc/portage/package.accept_keywords
        app-portage/layman ~amd64
        ctrl+x, y

        emerge -av app-portage/layman

        * IMPORTANT: 1 news items need reading for repository 'gentoo'.
        * Use eselect news read to view new items.


        These are the packages that would be merged, in order:

        Calculating dependencies... done!
        [ebuild     U ~] app-portage/layman-2.3.0::gentoo [2.0.0-r3::gentoo] USE="git subversion sync-plugin-portage%* -bazaar -cvs -darcs -g-sorcery% -gpg% -mercurial -squashfs% {-test}" PYTHON_TARGETS="python2_7 python3_3%* -pypy -python3_4%" 117 KiB

        Total: 1 package (1 upgrade), Size of downloads: 117 KiB

        Would you like to merge these packages? [Yes/No] yes
        >>> Verifying ebuild manifests
        >>> Running pre-merge checks for app-portage/layman-2.3.0
        >>> Emerging (1 of 1) app-portage/layman-2.3.0::gentoo
        >>> Installing (1 of 1) app-portage/layman-2.3.0::gentoo
        >>> Jobs: 1 of 1 complete                           Load avg: 0.38, 0.15, 0.08
        >>> Auto-cleaning packages...

        >>> No outdated packages were found on your system.

        * GNU info directory index is up-to-date.

Now I can remove vagrant from my overlay and use the original one.
